So, guys, welcome back in this section of the course, we will going to discuss the concepts on stacked
memory so we already know that in will address the space of a given process, the stacked memory occupies
the top position in the water letrozole space.
By top position, I mean that the stack memory resides on the right side of the process, which will
adjust the space.
So in this section, we will going to discuss the stack memory concepts in detail.
So people are going to focus on what exactly is a static memory, what is the purpose of a static memory,
and how its track memory is organized by the operating system for a running process.
So going forward, region of memory in process, which will address a space where data is added or removed
in, last in, first out manner is the stack memory.
So as we know that stack memory here, the meaning of the stack means that whatever data you add last
is the data which will be removed first.
So stack memory works on the concept of stack.
So STAC memory is basically are stacked data structure.
So a new function call is invoked, some data is added to the stack memory and when a current function
call returns, the data is removed from the stack memory.
This data is actually called a static frame.
Does every function has its stacked frame.
So you can see that.
Suppose, for example, we have a main function which makes a call to the function and function.
It makes a call to the function B and function be makes a call to function C, so each of these function
will have their own respective stack frame.
So suppose when the function e in walks the function B, then that stack frame of function B will be
placed into the stack memory and then the function B executes and it further invokes the function C
then the stack frame of the function C is pushed into the stack.
So any data which is stored in the stack memory is set to be decided on the stack.
So every process has its own fixed configurable stack memory.
So not that the maximum amount of stack memory that is available for a given process is actually fixed.
It neither grows, not it shrinks and it is configurable.
Configurable means that you can change the operating system parameters and configure the maximum amount
of stacked memory on the system.
Thus configured value will be the maximum size of the stack memory for every process that runs on your
machine.
Then process terminates stack memory is reclaimed back by the operating system.
So I will share the command with you using which you can actually check on your system the maximum amount
of stack memory for a process available on your system.
So for the function F to execute its stack, frame should be set up first on the stack memory.
Right.
And setting up the stack frame of a function is a joint effort of the caller and McCallie.
Now what is color suppose.
Function F one invokes function F two then f one function is called caller and f2 function is called
Colly.
Right.
So when function one invokes function F two, it is the callers and the caller's responsibility to set
a static frame for the function F on the stack memory.
Unless the static frame is rightly set up on the static memory function, F2 cannot commence its execution.
So you can see in this example we have a main function which in walks function A function invokes function
B and function B in walks function C..
So this is the static memory that I have shown in this diagram, and each block you can see is actually
called a static frame.
The other name of the stack frame is the activation record.
So every function has its own static frame, and that static frame needs to be pushed into the static
memory for the function to execute.
So you can see that the stack frame are pushed into the stack from hydrous address towards laboratories.
That is a stack frame of the most recent function which has been involved lies at the bottom of the
stack mummery.
And suppose function C completes its execution and returns.
So it's a taxpayers will be removed from the stack memory, so whenever a function returns, its dark
frame is popped out of the stack memory because the stack memory is a stack.
Therefore, we will use the terms which is associated with the stack operation.
So adding the data to the stack memory means that pushing the data in the stack and removing the data
from the stack memory means swapping out the data.
So stack frames are pushed into the stack when function and location is done and when the function returns
than the stack frame is popped out of the stack.